---
title: "Choosing the Right High School Classes "
categories:
  - Middle School -> High School
  - High School
---

<!---
<audio controls>
  <source src="horse.ogg" type="audio/ogg">
  <source src="horse.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>
--->

If success in the college admissions process is important, then your student needs to choose the right classes.

The high school transcript is one of the most important document in a student’s application. Keep in mind, though, rarely would there ever be one particular class on a transcript that would determine the applicant’s outcome.

While there’s no 100% guaranteed future college admissions formula, there are some strong patterns for success.

Here are some tips to guide you:

<b>1) Meet the high school requirements.</b>

High schools have a list of required credits that must be taken in order to graduate.  Most colleges (online and otherwise) require a high school diploma to enroll in any program that grants bachelor degrees.

<b>2) Take a balanced set of classes.</b>

Typically, a student should try to take courses each year in English, science, math, the social sciences, and foreign language.

<b>3)  Choose a smart range of college-prep courses.</b>

A student doesn’t need to take AP Everything to get into college, but course choice depends on the selectivity of the colleges a student wants to attend.   Demanding and challenging honors, accelerated, AP, International Baccalaureate (IB), and Advanced International Certificate of Education (AICE) courses make a student more desirable to a school. However, colleges recognize a student can only take advantage of accelerated courses if her high school provides them.  If AP courses or International Baccalaureate programs are not offered at a high school, colleges understand and only expect that a student will excel in the opportunities to which there is access. Colleges also understand different schools have different requirements that may restrict what courses a student can take.

<b>4)  Show colleges a positive pattern.</b>   

Colleges like to see a high level (or an improving degree) of rigor and success throughout a student’s high school years. This includes the senior year. Have you heard this famous question: “Is it better to take a course where I know I can get an ‘A’ or should I take a harder course and risk getting a lower grade?” The answer is: “It’s best to get an ‘A’ in a harder course.”  For those who find this answer unacceptable, we advise students to take the higher course if the student thinks she can get a “B.” Normally “C” or below means that a student is simply in the wrong level. The key is that students need to seek challenge, not avoid it, and succeed in the challenges chosen.

<b>5)  Know the admissions guidelines for top choice colleges.</b>

Many colleges, especially the selective ones, have specific admissions requirements for entering students, for example, a foreign language requirement. It is best to research each school individually.  Make sure your student meets any and all minimum requirements.

<b>6)  Pursue intellectual interests.</b>

It’s OK to take courses of a personal interest like filmmaking or fashion, just make sure it is not at the expense of a schedule’s overall rigor. Honesty is very important when a student is deciding between different courses. Is he or she choosing drama because of a real excitement about it and the challenge it presents, or is the motivation powered by a desire to avoid a different (and perhaps difficult) academic subject?

<b>7) Consult with teachers, a high school counselor and/or a Mentor from Mentoring SuperHighway on what courses are most appropriate.</b> 

Some difficult decisions may also need to be made about which courses to take and how to balance schoolwork and extracurricular activities.
